[4.1.0] Interceptors for Choreo Connect (#4953)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/message-transformation/defining-interceptors-in-an-open-api-definition.md

  title: PizzaShackAPI
x-wso2-basePath: /v2
x-wso2-production-endpoints:
    urls:
    - https://localhost:2380/v2
paths:
    /pet/findByStatus:
        x-wso2-production-endpoints:
            urls:
            -  https://localhost:2380/v1
        x-wso2-request-interceptor:
            scheme: http
            host: host.request.interceptor
            port: 9081
            includes:
            - request_body
        get:
            tags:
            - pets
            summary: Finds Pets by status
            description: Multiple status values can be provided with comma separated strings
            operationId: findPetsByStatus
            parameters:
            - name: status
              in: query
              description: Status values that need to be considered for filter
        .
        .
    /pet/{petId}:
        get:
.
.
```

<!-- The content of the below warning is same as the info notice in the file
deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/message-transformation/interceptor-microservice/request-flow-interceptor.md -->
!!! info
    If you update the request body before reaching the backend, make sure to add `request_body` to the `includes` section

>     of the Open API Specification. You may have a scenario like, what ever the request body from the client, based on a header value
>     you define your own request body to be sent to the backend. Even though you do not read the request body, the above inclusion
>     should be done to update the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    of the Open API Specification. You may have a scenario, where you define your own request body to be sent to the backend only based on a header value. Even though you do not read the request body, the above inclusion
    should be done to update the request body.
```

            urls:
            -  https://localhost:2380/v1
        x-wso2-response-interceptor:
            scheme: http
            host: host.request.interceptor
            port: 9081
            includes:
            - request_body
            - invocation_context
        get:
            tags:
            - pets
            summary: Finds Pets by status
            description: Multiple status values can be provided with comma separated strings
            operationId: findPetsByStatus
            parameters:
            - name: status
              in: query
              description: Status values that need to be considered for filter
        .
        .
    /pet/{petId}:
        get:
.
.
```

<!-- The content of the below warning is same as the info notice in the file
deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/message-transformation/interceptor-microservice/response-flow-interceptor.md -->
!!! info
    If you update the response body before reaching the client, make sure to add `response_body` to the `includes` section
    of the Open API Specification. You may have a scenario like, what ever the response body from the backend, based on a header value

>     you define your own response body to be sent to the client. Even though you do not read the response body, the above inclusion

Reviewer: We can update this too into something similar to https://github.com/wso2/docs-apim/pull/4953/files#r740149614

| includes               | Defines what should be included in the request body to interceptor service.                                            |
| requestTimeout         | Optional. Timeout in seconds to connect to interceptor service.                                                        |
| clusterTimeout         | Optional. Override the interceptor cluster timeout (in seconds) value, default to cluster timeout value in config.toml |

### Inclusions in Request from Choreo Connect Router to Interceptor Service

Based on the `includes` defined in the extension, the request from Choreo Connect Router to Interceptor Service includes only the specified information from **client request** or **backend response**.
For example, with this configuration you can instruct the Choreo Connect Router to not include request body from
the client and stop buffering the client request body and save the size of the request payload to interceptor service.
In the same way you can use only required inclusions based on you requirement and tune the interception flow.

> Following are the possible values for the `includes` in the extension. Content of the ***Invocation Context*** is 

Reviewer: Anything missing at the end of this line?

Author: fixed with https://github.com/wso2/docs-apim/pull/4953/commits/d7b93019651ecf40e9cc8b9b04ef49475ee5b44e

# Defining Interceptors in an OpenAPI Definition

You can define interceptors on an API level (per API) and on a resource level (per resource).
If you define a request/response interceptor on an API level **and** a resource level, the API level interceptor will be
overridden by the resource level interceptor for that resource.

> For an API, you can define

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For an API, you can define:
```

> - one of request or response interceptor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- one of request or response interceptors
```

> - or both of request and response interceptor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- or both of the request and response interceptors
```

> base on your requirement for the mediation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
based on your requirement for the mediation.
```

## Request flow Interceptor

You can define the request flow interceptor as follows in the Open API Definition with the extension `x-wso2-request-interceptor`.
[Description of Keys of Interceptor Open API Extension](#description-of-keys-of-interceptor-open-api-extension) explains

> detailed description of the keys.

Reviewer 2: For a detailed description of the keys, see [Description of Keys of Interceptor Open API Extension](#description-of-keys-of-interceptor-open-api-extension).

        x-wso2-request-interceptor:
            scheme: http
            host: host.request.interceptor
            port: 9081
            includes:
            - request_body
        get:
            tags:
            - pets
            summary: Finds Pets by status
            description: Multiple status values can be provided with comma separated strings
            operationId: findPetsByStatus
            parameters:
            - name: status
              in: query
              description: Status values that need to be considered for filter
        .
        .
    /pet/{petId}:
        get:
.
.
```

<!-- The content of the below warning is same as the info notice in the file
deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/message-transformation/interceptor-microservice/request-flow-interceptor.md -->
!!! info
    If you update the request body before reaching the backend, ensure to add `request_body` to the `includes` section
    of the Open API Specification. You may have a scenario like, whatever the request body from the client, you define
    your own request body (say, based on a header value) to send to the backend. Even though you do not read the

>     request body, you should do the above inclusion.

Reviewer 2: If you update the request body before reaching the backend, ensure to add `request_body` to the `includes` section of the Open API Specification. Your scenario might be that regardless of the request body from the client, you define your own request body (say, based on a header value) to send to the backend. Even though you do not read the request body, you should include the above condition.

## Response flow Interceptor

> You can use the extension `x-wso2-response-interceptor` to define the interceptor for response flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the extension `x-wso2-response-interceptor` to define the interceptor for the response flow.
```

> It is same as the request flow, but additionally following values are supported in the `includes` section of the extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is the same as the request flow, but additionally the following values are supported in the `includes` section of the extension.
```

    - response_headers
.
.
```

``` yaml tab="Example Resource Level"
.
.
info:
  version: 1.0.5
  title: PizzaShackAPI
x-wso2-basePath: /v2
x-wso2-production-endpoints:
    urls:
    - https://localhost:2380/v2
paths:
    /pet/findByStatus:
        x-wso2-production-endpoints:
            urls:
            -  https://localhost:2380/v1
        x-wso2-response-interceptor:
            scheme: http
            host: host.request.interceptor
            port: 9081
            includes:
            - request_body
            - invocation_context
        get:
            tags:
            - pets
            summary: Finds Pets by status
            description: Multiple status values can be provided with comma separated strings
            operationId: findPetsByStatus
            parameters:
            - name: status
              in: query
              description: Status values that need to be considered for filter
        .
        .
    /pet/{petId}:
        get:
.
.
```

<!-- The content of the below warning is same as the info notice in the file
deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/message-transformation/interceptor-microservice/response-flow-interceptor.md -->

> !!! info

Reviewer 2: Update this with the comment above.

| requestTimeout         | Optional. Timeout in seconds to connect to interceptor service.                                                        |
| clusterTimeout         | Optional. Override the interceptor cluster timeout (in seconds) value, default to cluster timeout value in config.toml |

### Inclusions in Request from Choreo Connect Router to Interceptor Service

Based on the `includes` defined in the extension, the request from Choreo Connect Router to Interceptor Service includes only the specified information from **client request** or **backend response**.
For example, with this configuration you can instruct the Choreo Connect Router to not include request body from
the client and stop buffering the client request body and save the size of the request payload to interceptor service.
In the same way you can use only required inclusions based on you requirement and tune the interception flow.

Following are the possible values for the `includes` in the extension. More information on ***Invocation Context*** is can be found in

> [Interceptor Context and Invocation Context](http://localhost:8000/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/message-transformation/interceptor-microservice/interceptor-context-and-invocation-context/#invocation-context)

Reviewer 2: Please add a relative link here instead of localhost. You can use {{base_path}} instead.
